The President:
Hi, everybody.
In the next few days,
America will take
an important step
towards fixing our broken
immigration system.
The entire United States
Senate will begin debating
a commonsense
immigration reform bill
that has bipartisan support.
We define ourselves
as a nation of immigrants.
The promise we find in those
who come from every corner
of the globe has always been
one of our greatest strengths.
It's kept our workforce
vibrant and dynamic.
It's kept our businesses
on the cutting edge.
And it's helped build the
greatest economic engine
the world has ever known.
But for years, our out-of-date
immigration system has actually
harmed our economy and
threatened our security.
Now, over the past four years,
we've taken steps
to try and patch up some of
the worst cracks in the system.
We strengthened security
on the southern border
by putting more boots
on the ground
than at any time
in our history.
And, in part, by using
technology more effectively -
today, illegal crossings
are near their lowest
level in decades.
We focused enforcement
efforts on criminals
who are here illegally -
who endanger our communities -
and today, we deport more
criminals than ever before.
And we took up the cause of
"Dreamers," the young people
who were brought to this
country as children.
We said that if they're able
to meet certain criteria,
we'd consider offering
them the chance
to come out of the shadows
so they can continue to work here,
and study here, and contribute
to our communities legally.
But if we're going to
truly fix a broken system,
we need Congress to act
in a comprehensive way.
And that's why what's happening
next week is so important.
Now, the bill before the
Senate isn't perfect.
It's a compromise.
Nobody will get
everything they want -
not Democrats,
not Republicans, not me.
But it is a bill that's largely
consistent with the principles
I've repeatedly laid out for
commonsense immigration reform.
This bill would continue
to strengthen security
at our borders,
increase criminal penalties
against smugglers
and traffickers,
and hold employers
more accountable
if they knowingly hire
undocumented workers.
If enacted, it would represent
the most ambitious enforcement
plan in recent memory.
This bill would provide a
pathway to earned citizenship
for the 11 million individuals
who are in this
country illegally -
a pathway that includes
passing a background check,
learning English,
paying taxes and a penalty,
and then going to
the back of the line
behind everyone who's
playing by the rules
and trying to come here legally.
This bill would modernize the
legal immigration system
so that, alongside training
American workers
for the jobs of tomorrow,
we're also attracting
highly-skilled entrepreneurs
and engineers who will
grow our economy.
And so that our people don't
have to wait years before their
loved ones are able to join
them in this country we love.
That's what immigration
reform looks like.
Smarter enforcement.
A pathway to earned citizenship.
Improvements to the
legal immigration system.
They're all commonsense steps.
They've got broad support -
from Republicans and Democrats,
CEOs and labor leaders,
law enforcement and clergy.
So there is no reason that
Congress can't work together
to send a bill to my desk
by the end of the summer.
We know the opponents of
reform are going to do
everything they can
to prevent that.
They'll try to stoke
fear and create division.
They'll try to play
politics with an issue
that the vast majority of
Americans want addressed.
And if they succeed, we will
lose this chance to finally fix
an immigration system
that is badly broken.
So if you agree that now is the
time for commonsense reform,
reach out to your
Representatives.
Tell them we have to get
this done so that everyone
is playing by the same rules.
Tell them we have the power to
do this in a way that lives up
to our traditions as
a nation of laws,
and a nation of immigrants.
In the end, that's
what this is all about.
Men and women who want nothing
more than the chance
to earn their way into
the American story,
just like so many of
our ancestors did.
Throughout our history,
that has only made us stronger.
And it's how we'll make sure
that America's best days
always lie ahead.
Thanks.
And have a great weekend.